the ability to plan for the future is a
cornerstone of our civilization the
human race would never have flourished
if we didn't organize a range design
prepare and delay gratification for
greater causes take for example this
structure the kernel dome which is a
massive Cathedral in a German city of
Cologne the construction began in 1248
and was completed no earlier than 1880
taken into account that the project was
halted for about 300 years nevertheless
this meant that generations of people
have spent lifetimes building something
that I would never see finished so this
displays how the human capacity for long
term planning can lead to mind-blowing
achievements like traveling to the moon
and in all likelihood a man's trip to
Mars but there's a fundamental
difference between planning and worrying
planning is constructive and focuses on
our own actions in a conceptual future
while worrying is trying to control the
uncontrollable by repeating possible and
even unrealistic scenarios over and over
again our worries can even consist of
fantasies that are totally out of touch
with reality
therefore as opposed to planning its
destructive nevertheless we keep
worrying because for some reason we
think that this is going to help us in
one way or another
unfortunately worrying generally does
more harm than good this video lays out
reasons to stop worrying
[Music]
one the vast majority won't happen
there's one thing certain about the
future which is that the future is
uncertain
history has known numerous people that
claim to have the power of foresight but
their predictions have mostly been
vaguely true or downright false and sure
from a deterministic perspective the
future is already written in the stars
but did someone ever succeed at reading
them as long as we are constrained by
time we perceive the future as an empty
canvas anything can happen
which is a blessing and occurs at the
same time our minds however do not like
uncertainty this is why religions that
offer answers regarding human destiny
can be so comforting because they
replace the empty canvas with something
more substantial but even for a
religious person life can be extremely
daunting as they might have knowledge
about the afterlife whether they will be
sent to heaven or hell or what life on
earth has in store for them is still a
mystery
faced with an uncertain future our minds
tend to create possible scenarios when
it comes to preparedness this is
actually a good thing
because thinking ahead gives us an
advantage as we calculate the
possibilities so we can take the
necessary measures based on speculations
for example knowing that financially
difficult times are coming we can
prepare for them by spending less and
saving more but when we worry our minds
are mass producing predictions even
about the things that don't really
matter and even worse repeating them
over and over again the problem is that
in the present moment a situation that
we have created hundreds of possible
outcomes for and false only in one
particular way
moreover chances are that this situation
won't even happen we could figure out a
million possibilities and still be wrong
what's the point of the impossible task
of figuring out exactly what the future
is going to
ring there is no point as author Eckhart
Tolle estate worried pretends to be
necessary but serves no useful purpose
- we can't control the future trouble
arises when we want to control the
future to control the future the mind
tries to think about it as it were the
present the mind somehow things that by
calculating every possible option it
will gain control in the end if we would
know but exactly would happen then we
would indeed have an advantage in
regards to our own actions we know for
example when our relationships end and
what stocks we need to buy to become
rich but the future is still out of
control the only difference is that we
already know what happens which makes it
no different than the past and we can't
control the past either the only thing
we can control our own actions in the
here-and-now a cause for procrastination
for example is the inability to retreat
from past and future and focus on the
task at hand instead in the present
moment we can create a new past and
influence the future but this requires
us to keep our focus on what we can do
right now by compartmentalizing a task
we can work on manageable pieces which
makes it much easier to focus as we
forget the end result for a while and
only think in terms of hours sessions or
days this relieves us from the
undermining weight of goals that seem
almost impossible to reach while still
working on them in the best possible
ways worrying only keeps us from acting
and the more we live in the future the
more our anxiety sabotages our efforts
to make a change as it's written in the
Bible therefore do not worry about
tomorrow for tomorrow will worry about
itself each day has enough trouble of
its own end quote
or in Senecas on the shortness of life
you are arranging what lies in fortunes
control and abandoning what lies in
yours what are you looking at - what
goal are you straining the whole future
lies in uncertainty live immediately and
quote
three we often don't value certain
events properly a hallmark of chronic
worriers is that they desire certain
outcomes while being averse to others
for example many people worry about
social interaction because they want to
be liked or about their jobs because
they are terrified of losing them by
exploring many possible scenarios the
mind tries to prevent what it's averse
to from happening and incur what it
desires but again the future is
uncertain and for that exact reason we
don't know if the things that we want to
happen are truly good and things that we
don't want to happen are truly bad
there's a Taoist story that portrays
what happens to people who judge based
on what they don't know this story tells
about an old farmer whose horse ran away
after they heard the news his neighbors
came to visit and said such bad luck may
be answered the farmer but the next
morning the horse came back accompanied
by three wild horses it's so wonderful
the neighbors exclaimed maybe replied
the old man the next day
the farmer's son tried to ride one of
the wild horses but he was thrown and
broke his leg what a misfortune the
neighbor said full of sympathy maybe and
hurt the farmer the next day military
officials came to the village to draft
the farmer's son into the army but when
they noticed the broken leg they passed
him by then the neighbors congratulated
the old farmer telling him how lucky is
that his son is spared from war the
farmer replied maybe this the worst
story shows that we can't judge what's
desirable or undesirable when it comes
to present events because we don't know
how things will turn out things that
seem bad may turn out to be blessings
and vice versa thus there's no point in
desiring certain outcomes if we cannot
judge their value maybe losing a job is
the best thing that could happen to us
maybe losing our money leads to us
living a much happier life
we just don't know but it's
comforting to keep in mind that every
cloud has a silver lining
to conclude this video it's essential to
mention that worrying is terrible for
our health worrying comes from a place
of fear and only generates more fear
which makes it a vicious downward spiral
the chronic anxiety that comes from
worrying affects the immune system and
can lead to physical illness and when we
become more receptive to illness we have
given ourselves yet another thing to
worry about being aware of the
devastating consequences combined with
the knowledge that the majority of the
things we worry about won't happen and
that we can't correctly judge present
events we might want to prioritize our
mental hygiene over all those things
that we can't control anyway thank you
for watching
[Music]
you